---
title: Resolutions are meant to be completed
layout: post
category: SBC
---

The first board I made took surprisingly little effort and ended shockingly buggy. However, it did fulfil its purpose of teaching me new stuff that I didn't know about earlier, albeit simple things like the uses of bypass capacitors or the effects of PCB trace length in high frequency circuits etc. But, my resolution was to make the board and run myOS on it and it remains incomplete. So, I have 4 ideas in my mind right now as to how to complete it (listed from easiest to hardest): 

  1. Reorder the board by fixing all the bugs. Cons: Even if I fix all the bugs in the next few days and then wait several weeks for the new boards to arrive and in the end, if the board does work, it won't be very interesting. All it has is a single USB 3 connector and CPU power to run a lift. I knowingly chose to build such a board because I wanted to take baby steps.
  2. Make a similar board but with stronger processor and add few IO connectors and use it like a Raspberry Pi equivalent. Cons: This is definitely more interesting than the first one and feasible too, thanks to open source hardware, but it will most likely end up being a rip-off of the more successful boards like RPi.
  3. Build a multi-CPU version the current board. This is the idea I am most psyched about because 1.  it will have more computation power than the first board and 2. there aren't many (I haven't seen one) single board computers that have dual CPUs so my board doesn't look like a ripoff. Cons: Unfortunately, Google search results didn't show much documentation about dual-CPU single board computers because most of the results are dominated by multi-board clusters(like 16 RPis used to build a cluster that turned out to be cheaper but decently powerful compared to a desktop processor etc.) However, I can take a look at the documentation of server motherboards as they usually have multiple CPUs and see if it is possible at all to implement such a design with ARM processors.
  4. Design a smartphone motherboard. Cons: I won't be able to build it. Most of the modern smartphones use SoCs that have CPU, GPU, ISP, LTE etc all built into one powerful but small piece of silicon, thus reducing work load on the designers. The saddest part is that datasheets of such incredible SoCs are protected by NDAs so badly that they are nowhere found on the top 10 pages of Google search (at least, Snapdragon ones). So unless I come across a equally powerful SOC that has open resources, there is no point in designing one.