---
title: More surprises
layout: post
category: SBC
---

It's been a very long time since I posted but on my defence, I had end semester exams followed by a 2 week trip to home followed by me getting selected for GSoC '17 thus leaving me little time to work on the board. However, I did try to solder the board, but more problems came in my way. First, the problem with uSIP package of the buck converters, whose footprint is off by 0.6 mm. I planned to solder extensions to the pads but it was easier said than done. I tried for almost 3 hours only to fail. Second, the micro-SD card holder's footprint (or rather it's margin) is well out of the USB's way in the PCB designer, but in reality, the body of the holder(made of metal) is touching the pins of the USB thus forcing me to remove the card holder altogether. I also paid a visit to the PCB lab where there is an oven and I decided to give it a try. I put my unsteady hands to the best use to place the components. After taking them out of the oven, I observed that around 25% of the components were not in perfect contact with the pads(I don't know how this happened), so I went to a different lab where there was a hot air station only to find out that they didn't have small nozzles. I tried with the bigger nozzle and somehow managed to solder the components. I came back to the buck converter problem and spent an hour or so but with literally zero progress. This only means one thing: the project isn't going to be completed. At least, the hardware part. On the software side of things, it was going pretty well before I hit a pause to make time for GSoC. After GSoC is over, I'll come back to the OS building part and I'll continue it until the end of the year or the end of the world whichever comes first. I enjoyed the hardware part a lot, so I am not going to stop working on it. Instead, I plan to design a smartphone PCB complete with WiFi, GSM, Cameras etc. Note that this is just going to be a design project only as it would be impractical to build it.