---
title: Choosing the 'right' processor
layout: post
category: SBC
---

Unfortunately, there is no 'right' processor. You always have to make compromises among performance, price, power consumption and many other factors. It all depends on the application and on you or your company's policies. Like some laptop manufacturer might choose performance over portability and include better processors, better GPU and bigger battery and end up making 10lb/5kg laptop. Others might choose portability over performance and use low TDP processor, no dedicated GPU and smaller battery to keep the laptop small and light. Designer of embedded systems might choose power consumption and size of chips over everything else. So, the bottom line is there is no 'right'processor. Coming to my board, there are two ways to choose: Google “best processor for embedded systems” and choose the first one in the list. Or spend weeks learning how every spec affects you. I chose to go in between. I saw which processors are famous (‘famous processors’  roughly translates to 'more resources’), then I checked the differences and then I made my decision. There are few important points to note: To run Linux, the processor should have a Memory Management Unit or MMU (There are a few distros like cLinux that run without MMU). We also need 32-bit or greater data bus width (People managed to port Linux to 8, 16 and 24-bit processors too, but porting is tougher than using a 32-bit processor). Since PCB designing is going to be a major roadblock, the fewer pins the CPU has, the better. Also, adding an independent power port will increase the complexity, so TDP of the CPU should be low. After considering these factors, I was able to narrow the list significantly. Now, it is time for the policies to take the decision. Since, the project is meant for educating myself, the number of policies are pretty low and I decided to go with AM3358 of Texas Instruments' Sitara processor line, mainly because I used TI's products in the past and I'm quite satisfied with their quality, service and especially their documentation. Plus they are ready to give me a free sample! Yay! I ordered the free sample and it should be here soon. Now, moving on to selecting the rest of the components.