---
title: Roadblocks
layout: post
category: SBC
---

I believe that any project should start with estimating what we can do and what we can't. So I start out my planning with looking at some of the limitations that I anticipate. I am not talking about small bugs and problems, but I am talking about problems that would have a major impact on the rest of the project. **1\. Knowledge: **I don't know anything about computer architecture or organisation other than the basic knowledge about say socket types, RAM versions, firmware and boot loaders that many gaming enthusiasts who built a desktop in their life. Okay, I'm not in that bad situation, I know little more than that. Plus I know basic electronics that I learnt for 2 years at college. But that's the whole point of this challenge: Learn stuff by doing! **2\. Money: **When I say money, I am not crying like "I worked in the mornings and studied under street light at nights and I made it to college." No, not that kind. What I mean is price-to-use ratio. For example, consider [Raspberry Pi 3](https://www.raspberrypi.org/) which has Quad Core ARM Cortex A53 processor with 1GB RAM, Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and so many other features and it costs only $35/INR 3000. Whereas the SBC I'm planning to make is going to cost much much more and it probably would have a single core A5 or A7 processor and 256MB RAM and no ethernet and stuff. The main reason for this difference is that RPi is mass produced which brings down the cost significantly(more than you would expect). I am not depressed by this because I'm doing this so that I could learn. I am not going to use this board (if it works!) for more than a few weeks or until I write a working OS for it. **3.PCB Designing: **The toughest part. The biggest roadblock. I have designed PCBs(Printed Circuit Board) in the past but they were all for low frequency signals(a max of 16MHz) and noise isn't a very big concern. But, alas, we are dealing with processor core that could go up to 1Ghz. Also noise is a very big concern in CPU signals. And all modern processors come in small BGA packages that are not only tough to solder on, but also tough to break out the pins. These and several other factors play such a significant role that there are textbooks that are several hundreds of pages long written just for this purpose ([Example](http://www.ti.com/lit/an/spraar7f/spraar7f.pdf)). PCB design also effects the cost directly as PCB printing cost is based on its area. Also, the quality, availability in my region and the price of the PCB manufacturing is very different for different companies(I got quotes starting from INR 2000 to $250 for 2 6-Layer-100mm x 100mm-boards) With these major and several other minor difficulties in mind, I proceed ahead for the next step (Processor selection) with a lot of enthusiasm and excitement for the game has just begun!