---
title: Power
layout: post
category: SBC
---

Powering the board turned out to be tougher than what I had anticipated. I wish to power the board using the same cable I use for data transfer to keep the board simple. A USB 2.0 port on a PC has a current limit of 0.5A at 5V i.e. it could deliver a power of 2.5W. A USB 3.0 port has a current limit of 0.9A at 5V, so it could deliver a power of 4.5W. I calculated the power consumption of my board and it is no more than 2W under load. To be on the safer side, I decided to use USB 3.0. A point to note is that my processor supports only USB 2.0 for data transfer, so I have to use USB 2.0 for connecting the board and use USB 3.0 port on my PC for connecting as 2.0 is compatible with 3.0. The voltage of USB is 5V whereas my CPU works at 1.1V, RAM at 1.5V, micro-SD at 3.3V. I can't use linear regulators as the power loss turned to be around 5W which I can't afford if I want to power the board using USB alone. So, I have to use a step down switching regulator(also known as buck converter).  TI comes to the rescue again with their [TPS82084](http://www.ti.com/product/TPS82084/description) which has an efficiency of more than 80%. My tentative plan is to use 3 of these for the three power rails in my board. I didn't decide if I should take 3 rails down from 5V or first convert 5V to 3.3V then from 3.3V, step down to 1.5V and then to 1.1V. With this said, I now have all the major components and it is time to start the schematic design! Correction (20/01/2017): I used the term USB 2.0 SPI by mistake. USB and SPI are different. What I wanted to say was USB 2.0 protocol. I corrected the mistake now.