---
title: The idea that could revive SBC
layout: post
category: SBC
---

Okay, today morning in the shower, I had a brainwave on how to save my SBC. You see the main problem with the current board was I got the footprints for the voltage converters wrong. I was looking at ways to fix this without having to reorder the board. I couldn't find any solutions that are easy-to-do, so I thought about designing a new, more interesting board (Remember how boring the current board is? It does almost nothing). However, like I said, I got an easy-to-do idea on how to fix it. Instead of soldering the voltage regulators on to the board, I could just solder wires to the voltage rails and use a bench power supply to supply the rails with the voltage I need. Simple, right? Not elegant and definitely destroys the need-to-run-on-a-single-usb-connection design spec but 1. it is simple and 2. it is better than letting the board sit idle in a shelf unattended to. This way, I can either end up with a working board or I could move ahead and look for any other problems I don't yet know of. Damn, why didn't I think of this before? I could have saved a lot of time and trouble if I had thought of it before. Anyways, better late than never. One problem though, I need a bench power supply which is easily available in the college, but, I'll be leaving for home in a couple of days for my internship at Amazon, Hyderabad :( I have to wait until the end of summer to fix this. Still, I am glad that this board is not going to be a complete waste after all. Fingers crossed.